

                    <<<<<<  CISCO >>>>>

Setup VLAN
Step 1 : Setthe trunk port
sw1#configure teminal
sw1(config)#interface fa0/1
sw1(config-if)#switchport mode trunk
sw1(config-if)#exit
sw1(config)#exit
sw1#show interface trunk


Step 2 : Give the VLAN ID and VLAN NAME 
sw1#config terminal
sw1(config)#vlan 10
sw1(config-vlan)#name staff
sw1(config-vlan)#vlan 20
sw1(config-vlan)#name student
sw1(config-vlan)#vlan 30
sw1(config-vlan)#name lecturer
sw1(config-vlan)#exit
sw1(config)#exit
sw1#show vlan

Step 3 : Set the Access Mode
sw1#config terminal
sw1(config)#interfacce fa0/3
sw1(config-if)#switchport mode access
sw1(config-if)#switchport access vlan 10
sw1(config-if)#exit
sw1(config)#interface fa0/4
sw1(config-if)#switchport mode access
sw1(config-if)#switchport access vlan 10
sw1(config-if)#exit
sw1(config)#interface fa0/5
sw1(config-if)#switchport mode access
sw1(config-if)#switchport access vlan 10
sw1(config-if)#exit


